In Merge Queries  Used to combine columns from two or more tables based on a common key (like a SQL JOIN).
For example, merging a Sales table with a Products table using the ProductID column.

In Merge operation columns will be added to the table whereas in append operation rows will be added to the table

In merge queires need not neceessary to be a same column name or same columns but there is a fact table coonects to the dimension table.

Merge works on column and it's like a Join.


Append Queries: Used to stack rows from two or more tables with identical column structures.

For instance, appending January Sales and February Sales into a single table.

In Append it is mandatory to have the same column names, data type of the two tables in which we are doing append queries,
In first table having 3 records and 2nd table having 3 records. when new append table generate that time 6 records we are showing.

Append works on column basis and it's like union all.

2. Difference between Star Schema vs Snowflake Schema?

Star Schema:

Simple structure with one central fact table connected to dimension tables (e.g., Date, Product, Region).
Easy to understand and optimized for querying.

Snowflake Schema:

Complex structure one central fact table connected to dimension tables and also Dimension Table 
is connected to Dimension table. and Heirarchy is there,Dimension tables are normalized into multiple related tables 
(e.g., Region table split into Country and State tables).
Requires more joins and is harder to query but reduces redundancy.

3. What are the data connections available in Power BI?

Power BI supports various connections:

File Sources: Excel, CSV, JSON, etc.
Database Sources: SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, etc.
Online Services: SharePoint, Salesforce, etc.
Others: APIs, Azure, and Big Data sources.

4. What is Gateway?

Data gateway is a basically act like a bridge, creating a connection between data on our local machine
and power bi service
Types 

1. Personal mode gateway : can only be used by you, can't be used with other apps or services, only supports
schedule refresh in power bi.

2. Enterprise mode gateway : Can be shared and used by multiple users. can be used by power bi, power apps, flows
support live query and dataflow for power bi.

5. What is Sync Slicer?

A Sync Slicer allows filtering across multiple report pages.
Implementation: Go to the slicer pane → Enable "Sync Slicer" → Apply filters across pages.

6. What is row level security in Power BI?

1. Row level security:

RLS stands for row level security, if we want to apply security on any perticular region
and want to show that much only to the client then we do it. 
There are two types static and dynamic.
Where for dynamic rls axis management sheet is there with username and email.
and we userprincipalname DAX. We can create in modeling ribbon in manage roles. 

Userprincipalname(): shows the username of currently logged user in both power bi dekstop and power bi service.

Username(): shows the desktop name in power bi desktop.

To implement the rls there a following steps

1. Import the dataset.
2. From modelling tab, select manage roles.
3. from the nabage roles window, select create.
4. under roles, provide a name for the role.
5. Under the tables, select the table to which you want to apply a DAX rule.
6. In the table filter expression box, enter the dax expresions.
7. select the checkmark above the expression box to validate the expression.
8. select save.

Static RLS:

When the dataset is small and user groups are static.
Fixed rules are applied.
Example: Regional sales data is shown only to specific teams (e.g., North team sees North region data).

Dynamic RLS:

When the dataset is large and user access is variable or requires frequent updates.
Rules change based on the logged-in user.
Dynamic RLS: For flexible access, like automatically filtering data based on the user’s login.
Example: A sales manager sees data for their assigned region dynamically based on their email.

7. What is Drill Through in Power BI?

Allows navigation from one report page to another with detailed information.
Add a Drill Through page, drag a field to the Drill Through pane, and filter data accordingly.

Example:
A summary page showing sales by region.
A Drill Through page showing detailed sales data for a selected region.
Implementation: Add a Drill Through filter on the target page (e.g., Region) and users can right-click to "Drill Through" from the summary page.

8. What are the charts used in real-time projects?

Bar Chart: Compare values like sales across regions.
Line Chart: Analyze trends over time (e.g., monthly revenue).
Pie/Donut Chart: Show proportions (e.g., sales share by product).
Decomposition Tree: Break down data hierarchically (e.g., Total Sales → Region → Product → Salesperson).

10. What are DAX Functions and Time Intelligence?
DAX Functions:
Aggregations: SUM, AVERAGE.
Logical: IF, SWITCH.
Text: CONCATENATE.
Time Intelligence: Functions like YTD, QTD, SAMEPERIODLASTYEAR for time-based analysis.

11. Explain the Decomposition Tree Chart.

Decomposition Tree: Visualize data hierarchies and explore root causes of metrics.
Example: Analyze low sales.
Break Total Sales → Region → Product → Salesperson to identify the cause of underperformance.

12. How to calculate month-wise sales?
MonthWiseSales = SUMMARIZE(SalesTable, FORMAT(SalesTable[Date], "MMMM"), "TotalSales", SUM(SalesTable[Sales]))

This groups data by month and calculates total sales.

13. How to handle many-to-many relationships?

Create a bridge table with unique values.
For example, if there are two fact tables with CustomerID, create a Customer Dimension Table and relate it to both fact tables.

14. What are the joins available in SQL?
A JOIN clause is used to combine rows from two or more tables, based on a related column between them. 
INNER JOIN: Returns only matching rows between tables.
LEFT JOIN: All rows from the left table, with matching rows from the right.
RIGHT JOIN: All rows from the right table, with matching rows from the left.
FULL OUTER JOIN: All rows from both tables, with NULLs for non-matching rows.

15. Display the color only for the highest sales in a visual.
HighlightColor = IF(Sales = MAX(Sales), "HighlightColor", "DefaultColor")

16. Calculate DISTINCTCOUNT of CustomerID from unrelated tables.

Use the UNION function to combine the CustomerID columns:

DistinctCount = DISTINCTCOUNT(UNION(VALUES(Table1[CustomerID]), VALUES(Table2[CustomerID])))
This combines CustomerIDs from both tables and removes duplicates.

17.Summarize function :
It is a table function. it returns new table. we can do aggregations like sum, average on our categories, officers and regions.
SUMMARIZE (Orders,Orders[Region],"Average Price", Average[Product[Price])
It will create new table.

18. What are DDL and DML commands in SQL?
DDL (Data Definition Language): Defines or modifies the database structure.
Examples: CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE.
DML (Data Manipulation Language): Manipulates data within tables.
Examples: INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, SELECT.

19. Extract the Last Name (e.g., "Smith") from "Benjamin-Smith" using DAX.
Use the RIGHT and SEARCH functions:
LastName = RIGHT([Name], LEN([Name]) - SEARCH("-", [Name]))

20. How to optimize a report with huge data?
Use Aggregations to reduce data size.
Limit data using filters (e.g., only the last 2 years).
Use star schema for modeling.
Minimize calculated columns; use measures instead.
Optimize visuals and remove unused fields.

21. How do you know if your client has viewed your report?
In Power BI Service, check the Usage Metrics for the report to see the number of views, unique users, and interaction details.

22. Different roles in Power BI Service:
Admin: Full control over the workspace.
Member: Can edit content and manage the workspace.
Contributor: Can create and modify content but can’t manage permissions.
Viewer: Read-only access to reports and dashboards.

23.How did you validate your report?
Verify the data sources and transformations for correctness.
Compare report outputs with raw data or existing reports.
Perform QA checks for calculations, filters, and visuals.
Validate with stakeholders to ensure business requirements are met.

1. Use measure instead Calculated Column.
2. Import only those tables which are needed from database.
3. Use Import Mode rather than Direct Query Mode.
4. Use of Reference rather than Duplicate.
5. Use Light Custom Visuals, also check with Performance Analyzer Option.
6. Use of Switch DAX, Field Parameters to consume less space.
7. Less use of slicers is must.
8. Disable Date Hierarchy Keys.
9. Will not connect 2 Fact Table and avoid many to many relationships.
10. Will avoid Quick Measures.
11. Try to avoid use of "Text" data type of columns.
12. Disable auto date & time.
13. Use of Bookmarks and Buttons.
14. Use of Star schema as 1st preference, 2nd preference as Snowflake schema. Don't use Galaxy schema. 
15. Avoid too many visuals per page.
16. Enable incremental refresh for large datasets.
17. Use DAX variables to simplify calculations and improve performance.
