What is Power BI?

Power BI is a data analytcis tool which is provided by microsoft with the help of which we analyze the data and create different 
interactive and attractive visualizations charts and reports for the client or end user.

Do you know about SSRS?

Basically SSRS means sql server reporting services, ssrs is really nothing more than a website 
that hosts web based report.so if you want to show a basic tablular report or graph report in a web browser then 
ssrs is best choice for us and power bi & tableau are alternative of SSRS

What is Join?

Join is only used to combine two or more table based on a specific common field between them or we can say its a cartesian product 
between two or more tables.so i can say when we are selecting a data from multiple tables with the relationship we use the join.

What are the different types of join?
So basically in power bi there is a six different types of joins and those are 
left join, right join, inner join, full outer join, left outer join, right outer join.

do you heard about self join?
self join is a join that can be used to join a table with itself

What is T SQL?

SQL is a programming extension from microsoft that adds several features to the structured query langauage like transaction control,
exception handling and error handling, row processing and decalre variables and all

What is Trigger?

Trigger is a special type of stored procedure that automatically runs when event occured in the database server

What is content pack?

is a package which contain dashboard,report and relevent database or may be the data source

Types of M Functions In Power BI?
I have used ifferent types of m functions like list.content, list.distinct, list.combine, list.sort, list.random

What is a slicer ?

sclier is a kind of filter with the help of which user can have interaction with reports and dashbaords

kEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR OR KEY PROCESSING UNIT OR TILES

Within how many days i will get the result.

What is Fact and Dimension Table.

Fact table contains data about event and holding aggregated numeric data that you want to analyze and in case of dimension it keeps 
the metadata that describes the fact table that can be used to filter the fact table instead of that we can also say in fact table
there is a less atttribute but more records than the dimension table and in dimension table there is more attribute bit less records comapred 
to fact table or we can say number of fact table is less than the dimesnion table in a schema where as the number of dimesnion schema is more than 
the fact table in a schema

Dynamic filtering

selected year = Concatenate("Sales for year ", SELECTEDVALUE('calender'[year])



