1. Row level security:

RLS stands for row level security, if we want to apply security on any perticular region
and want to show that much only to the client then we do it. 
There are two types static and dynamic.
Where for dynamic rls axis management sheet is there with username and email.
and we userprincipalname DAX. We can create in modeling ribbon in manage roles. 

Userprincipalname(): shows the username of currently logged user in both power bi dekstop and power bi service.

Username(): shows the desktop name in power bi desktop.

To implement the rls there a following steps

1. Import the dataset.
2. From modelling tab, select manage roles.
3. from the nabage roles window, select create.
4. under roles, provide a name for the role.
5. Under the tables, select the table to which you want to apply a DAX rule.
6. In the table filter expression box, enter the dax expresions.
7. select the checkmark above the expression box to validate the expression.
8. select save.

Static RLS:

When the dataset is small and user groups are static.
Fixed rules are applied.
Example: Regional sales data is shown only to specific teams (e.g., North team sees North region data).

Dynamic RLS:

When the dataset is large and user access is variable or requires frequent updates.
Rules change based on the logged-in user.
Dynamic RLS: For flexible access, like automatically filtering data based on the user’s login.
Example: A sales manager sees data for their assigned region dynamically based on their email.


2. What are the dataflows and why do we want them?

Dataflows are the live queries that run independently within the power bi service. We create them as we can:
reuse these queries accross multiple dekstop or service reports.

run ETL process on specific schedules.
Hence can integrate, transform & enrich the data.



3. What is gateway?

Data gateway is a basically act like a bridge, creating a connection between data on our local machine
and power bi service
Types 

1.Personal mode gateway : can only be used by you, can't be used with other apps or services, only supports
schedule refresh in power bi.

2. Enterprise mode gateway : Can be shared and used by multiple users. can be used by power bi, power apps, flows
support live query and dataflow for power bi.

3. Virtual network data gateway


4. Challenges in power bi?

challenges : slow perfromance when refreshing the large dataset.
solution : 1. Data Modelling : Optimize the data model by reducing the number of columns and creating star schema instead of snowflake schema.
           2. Aggregation : we done with pre aggregate data for faster reporting.
           3. DAX Optimization : Replace complex measures instead simple ones or use to avoid calculated columns.
           4. Query reduction : Disable auto date/time and reduce the no. of visuals or filter if not needed.

Pro Account
Supports Small or Medium datasets (up to 1GB per dataset).
    Sharing reports and dashboards with other Pro users.
    Exporting data to PowerPoint, Excel, or PDF.
    Creating app workspaces for collaboration.
    Allows up to 8 scheduled refreshes per day.
    Small to medium-sized organizations needing essential BI features. 

Premium Account 
   Supports large datasets (up to 400 GB per dataset).
   Enables Paginated Reports for pixel-perfect formatting.
   Offers AI Insights for automated data analysis using machine learning models.
   Provides higher processing power and dedicated capacity in the cloud.
   Supports Unlimited Sharing: Share content with users who don’t have Pro licenses.
   Allows up to 48 scheduled refreshes per day. 


5. KPIS : Key performance indicators: A kpis is a measurable value that indicates how well an objective is being achieved. 
       including revenue, profit margin or customer churn rate.

KPIS : Total sales, year over year growth.

Dimension : dimension provides a context analyzing the kpis. it is a
 qualitative data such as time region, product category and customer segment.
Dimension : Region[north america, erope], time[year, quarter]


Good practices in power bi?

Data modelling : Use star schema, avoid direct queries if possible
Naming conventions : Use meaningful names for tables, columns and measures.
Reduce dataset size: Remove unnesccsary columns and rows.
Use measure instead of calc columnsfor better performance.
Use variable in dax. to enhance readiability and performance.

IF(ISBLANK([COLUMN]), "DEFAULT",[COLUMN])