Q1. PERFORMACE WISE BETTER (How to improve the performance of Poweer BI)

USE measure instead of calculated column.
import only those tables which are needed from database.
use import Mode rather than direct query.'
use reference rather than duplicate.
Use appropriate data types, ex-use Date instead and DateTime format.
and use light custom visuals and also performance analyzer option.
Limit the number of visuals in dashboards and visuals.
use of data profiling and remove empty rows.
less use of slcier is must
disable data herirachy keys.
will not connect 2 fact tables. and avoid many to many relationships.
will avoid quick measures.
try to avoid text data types of columns.
disable auto data & time.
use of bookmarks and buttons.
use of star schema as 1st preference , 2nd snowflake and avaoid galaxy.

Q2. Bugs:

Check whether new incremental data was loaded properly ot not
check modelling properly and its all relationships. try to build it again.
check all the measures properly and dax in it.
check any filter is passed on page(slcier)
also check power query transformations whether they are applied properly. especially checks all the data types of columns.
build the visuals again which has issues.
also check settings in options and settings.
check companies server and is vdi working properly.
sometime data came from clients its wrong or having errors.

Q 3. Roles in power BI Service?

Power BI Admin : Persons own/manage the workspace with full control over other members in that workspace.

Member - Basically developer of that report has the member access having capabilities of doing modifications, sharing the reports through apps,
managing gateways and many more. Members can give contributor and viewer access whike adding new people in the workspace.

Contributor - Contributes by doing modifications if any and publishing it to the service. Can give only viewer access 
to the new people added to the workspace.

Viewer - The Business/end users are given viewers access who can only view the report to them.

Q 4. What is a Data Gateway and explain it's types?

Data Gateways basically act like a bridge, creating a connection between data on our local machine or server (not on the cloud)
and the power bi service.

Personal Mode Gateway : Can only be used by you, can't be used with other apps or services, only supports scehdule refresh in Power BI.

Enterprise Mode Gateway : Can be shared and used by multiple users, can be used by Power BI, Power Apps, Flow etc. supports Schedule 
refresh and live query(DataFlow) for power bi.

Q 5. What are the dataflows in Power BI ?

Dataflows are the live queries that run independently within Power BI Service. We create them as we can.

Reuse these queries across Multiple Desktop or Service reports.

Run ETL processes on specific schedules

Hence can integrate, transform and enrish our data.









ALL
What it does: It removes all filters from the specified column(s) or table.
When to use: When you want to ignore any filters applied to your data and consider everything.
Total Sales (Ignore All Filters) = 
CALCULATE(
    SUM(Sales[Amount]),
    ALL(Sales[Region])
)
What this does: Calculates the total sales amount for all regions, ignoring any filter applied to the Region column.

Example:
Imagine you have a table of sales data, and you've filtered the region to "East." If you use ALL(Sales[Region]), it will ignore the "East" filter
and calculate for all regions.

2. ALLSELECTED

What it does: It keeps the filters applied by the user (like slicers or visuals),
 but ignores filters applied by calculations inside your measure.
When to use: When you want to respect the user’s selections but ignore intermediate filters added by your calculations.
Example:
If a user selects "East" in a slicer and your measure uses ALLSELECTED(Sales), it will only calculate for "East,"
respecting the user's slicer choice. But if you add an internal filter in the measure, it will ignore that and stick to the slicer selection.

Total Sales (Respect User Slicers) = 
CALCULATE(
    SUM(Sales[Amount]),
    ALLSELECTED(Sales)
)

What this does: Calculates the total sales amount for the rows visible after applying slicers or filters set by the user on visuals.

3. ALLEXCEPT
What it does: It removes all filters except for the ones you explicitly specify.
When to use: When you want to clear all filters but keep some specific ones intact.
Example:
If your data has filters for region and year, and you use ALLEXCEPT(Sales, Sales[Year]), it will remove all filters except for the year filter.

Total Sales (Keep Year Filter) = 
CALCULATE(
    SUM(Sales[Amount]),
    ALLEXCEPT(Sales, Sales[Year])
)

What this does: Calculates the total sales amount, ignoring all filters except those applied to the Year column.


1. Avoid select * in queries.
2. use indexes on required columns.
3. Avoid functions in where clause.
4. Avoid leading wildchards in Like.
5. use inner join for efficiency
6. use union all insetad of union 
7. avoid subqueries for performance.
8. Use common table expressions.
9. use limit for large dataswets. 
